Project Title: CS230 Final Project
Team Members: Josiane Uwumukiza, Aubrey Cantrell, Lauren Burgin
Credits: Prof. Delcourt

Introduction:
	In this project, our group examined whether or not the number of female actors in a movie was greater than or equal to 50%. We chose this test based on the information in the article “The Next Bechdel Test” by Walt Hickey, Ella Koeze, Rachael Dottle, and Gus Wezerek. Two tests referenced were The Uphold Test, in which “The on-set crew is 50 percent women,” and The White Test, where half the department heads, the members of each department,  and the crew members are all women. We wanted to take this 50% and apply it to the entire cast of a movie. We were given a few data sets containing information about actors: what movies they played in, their names, and their genders. We were tasked with using this provided information to determine if at least 50% of actors in a given movie were female. Not only did we need to determine the answer to this question, but we also needed to create a graph of all the movies and actors that showed all of their connections to one another and be able to determine the degrees of separation between two actors.

Method:
	The group created a class HollywoodGraph that reads a text file of movies and their actors and creates an undirected graph using the AdjListsGraph Data Structure. We chose the AdjListsGraph because it had all the methods we would need to build an undirected graph, and we could also visualize this type of graph more easily. The Graph holds the String names of all the actors and movies; if an actor is in a movie, an edge between the two is created. Additionally, we created a Movie class and an Actor class that holds a list of all the Actor objects in a Movie object or all the Movie objects in an Actor object. We also created an ArrayList to hold all the String names of the actors and movies, an ArrayList that holds all the Actor objects, and an ArrayList to hold all the Movie objects to get information about each object easily. These structures allowed us to easily access all the actors in a movie in order to determine the Bechdel-like ratio. 

Conclusions:
	By doing this project, we learned how to use a Graph building data structure and attempted to traverse that graph. We also learned how to determine the methods needed to create new graphs. Our new Bechdel-like test was determining if the cast was at least 50% women or greater. This is a meaningful test to include because it is important to have women in films so that women can see an equitable representation of themselves. Younger generations need to be able to identify with movie casts, so having at least 50% of the class be female would allow them to grow with this ideal already set in place without them knowing. We used real-life data to create code that explored questions of gender imbalance by reading and parsing through a text file and converting that information into strings that created a graph. We also kept track of the data we needed, name and gender, to test our Bechdel-like ratio. We practiced our object-oriented code by using multiple data structures, including the AdjListGraph and ArrayLists, and creating object classes for actors and movies. Initially, we were not sure if we needed to create classes for actors and movies, but we determined that it would help us access information about them more easily. We also tried multiple traversals for our graph to determine which worked best. There were many different design decisions we could make that allowed us to take the time to break down our own code to figure out what was best. At one point, we attempted to use LinkedLists for our graph, but it did not work out for us. The time complexity of our basic methods is O(n) and O(1); however, our more complex methods have different time complexity. Our method for finding the degree of separation between actors has a complexity of O(n2), and our graph builder method has a complexity of O(2n2).  
